\documentclass{article}

\usepackage{natbib}
\begin{document}

\nocite{MonteCarloTableau}
\nocite{SRASS}
\nocite{DeepGraph}
\nocite{LightweightPaulson}
\nocite{MaSh}
\nocite{SNoW}
\nocite{MizarMode}
\nocite{DataMiningAFT}
\nocite{MaLARea}
\nocite{MaLARea04}
\nocite{DeepMath}
\nocite{FlyspeckFeatW}
\nocite{ProofGeneral}
\nocite{MLProofGeneral}
\nocite{MaLAReaSG}
\nocite{RLTP}
\nocite{PremiseSelection}
\nocite{DNGPS}
\nocite{malecop}
\nocite{femalecop}
\nocite{Holstep}
\nocite{EndToEndDiffProving}
\nocite{FeatureBasedThmP}
\nocite{OverviewEvalPremiseSel}
\nocite{LearnBasedFactSelIsabel}
\nocite{Flyspeck}
\nocite{Mizar40}

\cite{FuchsGenetic} -- heuristic learned to be chosen with Gen Algo

\cite{DomKnThmProv} -- inference control heuristics for equational deduction.
Data from prev proofs, select equations that are likely to be used in new
situations. 1st eval fn works by symbolic retrieval of generalized patterns
from a kkn base, 2nd eval fn compiles the knowledge into abstract term
evaluation trees. \textbf{Analyzed proof protocols} by representing knowledge
about protocols'n'proofs 

\cite{HighPerfATPAI} -- case-based reasoning, similarity concept, cooperation
concept, reactive planning; still `learn' from previous successful proof
attempts'

\cite{FeatureBasedThmP} -- Learn search-guiding heuristics by employing
features in a simple, yet effective manner. Features used to adapts a heuristic
to a solved problem. Utilize heuristic profitably for related target problems.
\textbf{Prediction of usefulness of a fact.} 

SNoW \cite{SNoW} -- learning program that can be used as a general purpose
mulit-class classifier and is specifically tailored for large number of
features. Sparse Network of Winnows (not a typo). Sparse network of sparse
linear functions over a pre-defined or incrementally acquired feature space.
Several update rules may be used -- sparse variations of the Winnow update
rule, the Perceptron or Naive Bayes. Multi class learner. Decisions either
binary or continuous (confidence in [0, 1]).

Proof General \cite{ProofGeneral} -- tool for developing proofs with ITP.
Interaction based around proof script (seq of commands sent to ITP). Provides
UI.

Mizar proof advisor \cite{MizarProofAdvisor} -- MPTP (Mizar Problems for
Theorem Proving) is system described; translates MML into FOL for ATPs and for
generating thm proving problems corresponding to Mizar Mathematical Library.
Mizar proof advisor used for selecting suitable axioms from the large library
for an arbirtrary problem. Feature based ML framework, symbols are the features
that characterise formulas. They had 40k targets and about 7k features.
\textbf{SNoW} learning architecture used mainly (NLP archit, designed for large
num of feat and targets).

MizarMode \cite{MizarMode} -- Emacs authoring environment. Code-generating
Code-Browsing Code-searching methods. Auto gen proof skeletons, semantic
browsing of articles, structured viewing, proof advice using \textbf{machinee
learning tools} like Mizar Proof Advisor. 

Lightweight relevance filtering ... \cite{LightweightPaulson} -- relevance
filtering methods, based on counting fn symbols in clauses. Signature based
relevance filter. Not exactly ML?...

The use of Data-Mining... \cite{DataMiningAFT} -- evaluate the applicability of
data-mining techniques for tactics from large corpuses of proofs. Data mine
information to find occuring patterns. Patterns are then evolved into tactics.
Variable Length Markov Models used to predict next proof step.

MaLARea \cite{MaLARea} -- simple metasystem iteratively combining deductive
Automated Reasoning tools (now the E and the SPASS ATP systems) with a machine
learning component (now the SNoW system used in the  naive  Bayesian  learning
mode). Intended use -- large theories, i.e. large num of problems which in
a consistent fashion use many axioms, lemmas, thms, etc. The system works in
cycles of thm proving followed by ML from successful proofs, using the learned
information to prune the set of available axioms for the next cycle. MPTP
challenge - 142/252. Learning could be stated as creating an assoc of some
features of the conjecture with proving methods. Features -- just symbols
appearing in them. "Proving method" -- ordering of all av axioms. Goal -- given
symbols, produces ordering of axioms, according to expected relevancy wrt the
set of symbols. Sufficiently simple to implement and quite efficient in the
first experiments with thm proving over Mizar library. Deduce, learn, loop
implemented via growing axiom set and growing timelimit policy. First try to
solve cheaply (min num axioms / most relevant, lowest timelimit). On success,
learning performed on the newly available solution and axiom/time limit dropped
to min values. No success -- increase limits. Details in paper. MLMLMLMLML SNoW
used in NB mode, bcs of speed. One training example contains all the symbols of
a solved conjecture w/ names of axioms needed. A bayes network is trained.
Easier to just relearn every time. Trained classifier is used to prune the
axiom set for the next runs -- we take all the unsolved conjectures and create
a testing example from each by taking all its symbols. The classifier run on
this printing (ordered) axioms. This is then used to select req num of axioms.
Usage of previous results exists.

SRASS \cite{SRASS} -- selection determined by semantics of the axioms and
conjecture, heuristically ordered by a syntactic relevance measure. Many
problems more solved. At each iter the process looks for a model of selected
axioms and the neg of the conjecture. If no model found, then the conjecture is
consequence. Otherwise, then an unselected axiom that is false in the model is
moved to the set of selected axioms. Newly selected axiom excludes the model
from the models of the selected axioms and neg conj, eventually leading to
a situation where there are no models of the selected axioms and the negated
conjecture. Unselected axioms selected in decreasing order of usefuleness.
Syntactic relevance score for usefulness. Direct relevance is ratio of how many
predicates and/or functors the have in common to how many they have overall.
Contextual direct relevance uses `contextual intersection'.

MaLARea SG \cite{MaLAReaSG} -- combines model-based and learning based methods
for automated reasoning in large theories. The implementation is based on
MaLARea. Extended by taking into account semantic relevance of axioms, similar
to SRASS. Combined system outperforms both. Three extensions to selection of
axioms. 1. check for countersatisfiability in runs where this is probable.
Allows for countersatisfiability precheck to detect more cases when more axioms
need to be added. 2. Use models found when a problem is found to be
countersatisfiable, as an additional criterion for computing axiom relevance.
Need to efficiently evaluate formulae in the models. 3. Extend axiom
specification using a logical criterion: the set of axioms should exclude as
many known models of the negated conjecture as possible. \textbf{Weird
combination. Review!}

MaLeCoP \cite{malecop} -- TABLEAU CALCULUS YAY!!! While in MaLARea
learning-based axiom selection is done outside unmodified theorem provers, in
MaLeCoP the learning-based selection is done inside the prover, and the
interaction between learning of knowledge and its application can be much
finer. The general design that we propose is as follows (see also Figure 1):
The theorem prover (P) should have a sufficiently fast communication channel to
a general advisor (A) that accepts queries (proof state descriptions) and
training data (characterization of the proof state together with solutions
and failures) from the prover, processes them, and replies to the prover
(advising, e.g., which clauses to choose). The advisor A also talks to external
system(s) (E). A translates the queries and information produced by P to the
formalism used by a particular E, and translates E’s guidance back to the
formalism used by P. At suitable time, A also hands over the (suitably
transformed) training data to E, so that E can update its knowledge of the
world on which its advice is based. A is free to spawn/query as many
instances/versions of Es as necessary, and A is responsible for managing the
guidance provided by them. Particular instances of Es that we have in mind are
learning systems, however we believe that the tableau setting is also suitable
for linking of SMT solvers, computer algebra systems, and all kinds of other AI
systems, probably in a more straightforward way than for the resolution-based
systems. SNoW again...

Premise selection .. and kernel methods \cite{PremiseSelection} -- This  work
develops  learning-based  premise  selection  in  two  ways.  First,a  newly
available  minimal dependency  analysis  of  existing  high-level  formal
mathematical proofs is used to build a large knowledge base of proof
dependencies,  providing  precise  data  for  ATP-based  re-verification  and
for  training premise selection algorithms.  Second, a new machine learning
algorithm for premise selection based on kernel methods is proposed and
implemented (Section 4 gives details) 0/1 features if sth appears in
conjecture. Looking for a classifier fn which, given a conjecture c, estimates
how useful p is for proving c. (still the aproach with chosing the best some
premises) Maths explained nicely.

Flyspeck \cite{Flyspeck} -- Trained on Flyspeck proofs. (HOL Light is an ITP)
The procedure implemented for HOLLight is currently a combination of the
external, internal, learning, and non-learning premise selection approaches.
This procedure assumes the common ITP situations of a large library of (also
definitional) theorems $T_i$ and their proofs $P_i$ (for definitions the proof
is empty). The proofs refer to other theorems giving rise to a partial ordering
of thms etended into their total chrono order. Procedure:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item characterisations of thms and proofs are extracted in a simple format
    \item dependency data are obtained by running ATPs on the ATP problems created from the hollight deps, i.e. tms are re-proved. Preferred (it is smaller) data. Exported as 1
    \item external premise selectors preprocess the thm characterizations and the proof deps. Multiple characterizations and proof dependencies may be used
    \item when an new conjecture is stated in hollight its characterization is extracted and sent to the pretrained first stage premise selectors.
    \item the first stage premise selectors work as rankers. For a given conjecture characterization they produce a ranking of the available theorems (premises) according to their (assumed) relevance for the conjecture.
    \item The best ranked premises are used inside hollight to produce atp problems. Several thresholds on num of included premises are used, resulting in multiple versions of the ATP problems.
    \item The ATPs are called on the problems. Some of the best ATPs run in a strategy-scheduling mode combining multiple strategies. Some of the strategies always use the SInE (i.e. local, second stage) premise selection (with different parameters) and some other strategies may to use SINE when the ATP problem is sufficiently large.
\end{enumerate}
\textbf{ML of Premise Selection}\\
All the currently used first-stage premise selectors are machine learning
algorithms trained in various ways on previous proofs. A number of machine
learning algorithms can be experimented with today, and in particular
kernel-based methods and ensemble methods have recently shown quite good
performance on smaller datasets such as MPTP2078. Scaling hard on large corpus.
So far this work uses mostly sparse implementation of a multiclass NB
classifier (SNoW again...). Several other fast incremental learning algorithms
were briefly tried -- perceptron and winnow algos (SNoW) and custom k-NN. Only
k-NN produced enough additional prediction power. 

At a given point during the library development, the training data available to
the machine learners are the proofs of the previously proved theorems in the
library. A frequently used approach to training premise selection is to
characterize each proof $P_i$ of theorem $T_i$ as a (multi)set of theorems
\{$T_{i_1}, ... T_{i_m}|T_{i_j} used in P_i$\} The training example will
consist of the input characterization (features) of $T_i$ (features) and the
output characterization of $T_i$ (labels) will be the multi set \{$T_i$\} and
the previous set. Such training examples can be tuned in various ways. For
example the output theorems may be further recursively expanded with their own
dependencies,the input features could be expanded with the features of their
definitions, various weighting schemes and similarity clusterings can be tried,
etc. This is also mostly left to future general research in premise-selection
learning. Once the machine learner is trained on a particular development state
of the library, it is tested on the next theorem T in the chronological order.
The input features are extracted from T and given to the trained learner which
then answers with a ranking of the available theorems. This ranking is given to
HOL Light, which uses it to produce ATP problems for T with varied numbers of
the best-ranked premise
(FOR THE PREVIOUS)
custom implementation of the k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) machine-learning method,
which computes for a new example (conjecture) the k nearest (in a given feature
distance) previous examples and ranks premises by their frequency in these
examples. (\\END)

Stronger automation for Flyspeck... \cite{FlyspeckFeatW} -- 2 complementary AI
methods used to improve strength of ai/atp service. First, several schemes for
frequency-based feature weighting are explored in combination with
distance-weighted k-nearest-neighbor classifier. A smaller improvement is
obtained by evolving targeted E prover strategies on two particular premise
selections, using the Blind Strategymaker (BliStr) system.  The  simplest  way  how  to  measure  the  similarity  of
formulas  to  the  new  conjecture  is  to compute the overlap of their
(sparse) feature vectors. Neglected  by  our  first  implementation  is
however  the  sensitivity  of k-NN  to  feature  frequencies. Inverse Document
Fequency weighting. 

MaSh \cite{MaSh} -- Sledgehammer had relevance filter (syntactic similarity).
Mash learns from succsessful proofs. Integrates easily. \emph{Draws on recent
research in the context of Mizar and HOL Light.} CUSTOM version of a weighted
sparse naiveB algo, that is faster than the NB in SNoW. Maintains persistent
state and supports incremental, nonmonotonic updates.  The main technical
difficulty is to perform the learning in a fast and robust way without
interfering with other activities of the proof assistant. Power users can
enhance the learning by letting external provers run for hours on libraries,
searching for simpler proofs. A particularly strong filter, MeSh, is obtained
by combining MePo (MEPO is paulsons thingie which selects based on num of
relevant symbols) and MaSh. Implementations refines this in several ways --
chained facts take absolutie priority, local facts are preferred to gloobal,
first order facts preferred to hol ones; rare symbols are weighted more
heavily; etc. Mepo tents to perform best on that contain some rare symbols,
otherwise it discriminates poorly. There is also issue of starvation: the
filter with its iterative expansion of the set of relevant symbols effectively
performs a best first search and may ignore some relevant facts close to the
root. Provers given ranked selected facts. Time limit and number of facts vary
(the classic setting). Once a proof is found, Sledgehammer miinimizes it by
invoking the prover repeatedly with subsets of the facts it refers to. 
\\\textbf{The ML engine}\\
Default algorithm NB adapted to fact selection. Manipulates thm proving
concepts in an abstract way. Handcrafted features. Sources of proofs -- all
facts in theories. Most interesting lemmas, those written by man. (see paper
for math details)

MaLARea04 \cite{MaLARea04} -- seems like nothing new...

FEMaLeCoP (great names btw) \cite{femalecop} -- FEMaLeCoP is a connection
tableau theorem prover based on leanCoP which uses efficient implementation of
internal learning-based guidance for extension steps. Despite the fact that
exhaustive use of such internal guidance can incur a significant slowdown of
the raw inferencing process, FEMaLeCoP trained on related proofs can prove many
problems that cannot be solved by leanCoP. Femalecop is the first ai/atp system
convincingly demonstrating that guiding the internal inference algorithms of
theorem provers by knowledge learned from previous proofs can significantly
improve the performance of the provers.  In the MaLeCoP(Machine Learning
Connection Prover) experiment we have shown that in principle it is possible to
significantly prune the internal search space of leanCoP. In this work, we
devise much stronger learning-based guidance for connection tableau by
developing an AI/ATP system where the learning-based guidance is an optimized
and tightly integrated part of the core inferencing algorithm and data
structures. The basis of FEMaLeCoP is the OCaml version of leanCoP. We advise
the selection of clause for every tableau extension step. (see paper) We use
a fast custom OCaml implementation of the naive Bayes algorithm that learns the
association of the features of the proof states (see below) with the
contrapositives that were used for the successful tableau extension steps in
previous proofs. We characterize the proof state as a weighted vector of
symbols and/or (possibly generalized) terms extracted from all the literals on
the active path. (see details) An optional problem-specific data-filtering step
is to use the k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) algorithm for further restriction of
the relevant training data. If this is used, we first find the k solved
problems whose conjectures are (in the feature metric) closest to the current
conjecture, and extract the training examples only from such problems.
(INTEGRATED LIKE AN INTERNAL SYSTEM)

Mizar40 \cite{Mizar40} -- 40\% of thms solved in the MML. To achieve that,
a large suite of AI/ATP methods is employed and further developed. We implement
the most useful methods efficiently, to scale them to the 150000 formulas in
MML. The main body of our work thusconsists of the following steps: (DETAILS IN
PAPER...).  Nothing really interesting or 'grand'

A learning based fact selector... \cite{LearnBasedFactSelIsabel} -- MaSh
reintroduction...

DeepMath \cite{DeepMath} --  "We propose a two stage approach for this task
that yields good results for the premise selection task on the Mizar corpus
while avoiding the hand-engineered features of existing state-of-the-art
models. To our knowledge, this is the first time deep learning has been applied
to theorem proving on a large scale." 4 main contributions: 1) demonstration
for the first time that neural network models are useful for aiding in large
scale automated logical reasoning without the need for hand-engineered features
2) Comparison of various network architectures 3) A method of semantic-aware
“definition”-embeddings for function symbols that improves the generalization
of formulas with symbols occurring infrequently 4) Analysis showing that neural
network based premise selection methods are complementary to those with
hand-engineered features. Motivation from NLP (see paper)\\
OverviewOfApproach\\
Pairwise relevance -- predicting the probability that a given axiom is useful
for proving a given conjecture. The conjecture and axiom sequences are
separately embedded into fixed length real vectors, then concatenated and
passed to a third network with 2 fully connected layers and logistic loss.
During training time, the two embedding networks and the joined predictor path
are trained jointly. As discussed in section 3, we train our models on premise
selection data generated by a combination of various methods, including
k-nearest-neighbor search on hand-engineered similarity metrics. We start with
a first stage of character-level models, and then build second and later stages
of word-level models on top of the results of earlier stages.

Character level models -- We begin by avoiding special purpose engineering by
treating formulas on the character-level using an 80 dimensional one-hot
encoding of the character sequence. These sequences are passed to a weight
shared network for variable length input. (see paper)
Word-level models -- The character-level models are limited to word and
structure similarity within the axiom or conjecture being embedded.  However,
many of the symbols occurring in a formula are defined by formulas earlier in
the corpus, and we can use the axiom-embeddings of those symbols to improve
model performance.

HOLstep \cite{Holstep} -- In this paper, we introduce a new dataset based on
Higher-Order Logic (HOL) proofs, for the purpose of developing new machine
learning-based theorem-proving strategies. Reasons for hol given in paper and
how dataset is extracted. Several possible tasks are outlined.

End-to-End differentiable proving \cite{EndToEndDiffProving} -- doesn't fit in
the picture (nice paper otherwise)

Reinforcement Learning of Theorem Proving \cite{RLTP} -- Thm proving algo that
uses practically no domain heuristics for guiding its connection-style proof
search. Instead, it runs many Monte-Carlo simulations guided by reinforcement
learning from previous proof attempts. We produce several versions of the
prover, parameterized by different learning and guiding algorithms. In this work, we remove this requirement, since it basically means that all shorter proof candidates have to be tried before a longer proof is found.

\textbf{bare prover} Our bare prover is based on a previous reimplementation
[23] of leanCoP in OCaml (mlCoP).Unlike the Prolog version,mlCoP uses an
explicit stack for storing the full proof state (used for the ML part).  We
first modify mlCoP by removing iterative deepening, i.e., the traversal
strategy that makes sure that shorter (shallower) tableaux are  tested  before
deeper  ones.   Instead,  the  bare  prover  randomly  chooses  extension  and
reduction steps operating on the current goal, possibly going into arbitrary
depth. Next, we add playouts and search node visit counts. A play out of length
d is simply a sequence of d consecutive extension/reduction steps (inferences)
from a given proof state(a tableau with a selected goal). Inferences  thus
correspond  to actions and  are  similar  to  moves  in  games.   We  represent
inferences as integers that encode the selected clause together with the
literal that connected to the goal.  Instead of running one potentially
infinite playout, the bare prover can be instructed to play n playouts of
length d. Each playout updates the counts for the search nodes that it visits.
Search nodes are encoded as sequences of inferences starting at the empty
tableau. A playout can also run without length restrictions until it visits
a previously unexplored search node. The  next  modification  to  this  simple
setup  are bigsteps done  after b playouts.   They  correspond to moves that
are chosen in games after many playouts.  Similarly, instead of starting all
playouts always from scratch (empty tableau) as above, we choose after the
first b playouts a particular single inference  (bigstep),  resulting  in
a  new bigstep  tableau.   The  next b playouts  will  start  with  this
tableau, followed by another bigstep, etc.

\textbf{rlcop} extends the bare prover with (i) Monte-Carlo tree search balancing exploration and exploitation using the UCT formula. To implement Monte-Carlo tree search, we maintain at each search node i the number of its visits $n_i$, the total reward $w_i$, and its prior probability $p_i$. This is the transition probability of the action (inference) that leads from i's parent node to i. If no policy learning is used, the prior probabilities are all equal to one. The total reward for a node is computed as a sum of the rewards of all nodes below that node. In the basic setting, the reward for a leaf node is 1 if the sequence of inference s results in a closed tableau, i.e., a proof of the conjecture. Otherwise it is 0. (actually is slightly different -- see paper)

Great paper, but need to review some RL for presentation.



\bibliographystyle{apalike}
\bibliography{refs.bib}

\end{document}
